# 2016-02-23 Minutes

First Slack meeting to discuss the Data Skeptic Home Sales project.

Kyle explained:

> Long term, I want to develop the infrastructure for all publicly available information to become available to anyone who wants it.  

> Beyond this, I want to use that data to tell interesting data stories and teach data science.  

> Real estate (whether you're in the market or not) is a wonderful mix of data challenges and interesting questions.

> On a personal level, I'm trying to run a regression now to evaluate homes that Linh Da and I might be interested in.  I can build the model, and want to share the story of that on Data Skeptic, but I can't get the data I need to do it.

> So I hope as a little community we can answer all the open questions, propose free open universal standards, and get these data sources federated

> Along the way, hopefully we can find a means where this system (which is not a company, but maybe a non-profit) can absorb the cost of making this information federated and freely distributed

One attendee proposed we build an interactive web platform to get an estimate based on entered parameters.

One member commented "services like trulia and zillow use models on data they have collected with some pretty significant error in some cases".

Many MLS services, even in single states.  Almost none of them are federated.

We were fortunate to have an appraiser at the meeting giving us numerous insights.  He mentioned that tax assessorsa and clerks of court records are common sources of data, but different states have different disclosure rules.  Texas sounds particularly closed.

We were left with the question: What states are non-disclosure states?

## Next steps

For next week, we're going to take on two challenges:

1. Look into any common data formats (RDF or otherwise) to describe real estate data.
1. Find a city/county/state that seems to be particularly accessible from a data perspective, regardless of technical challenges to get the data.  As long as it's open and available, we can do ETL and data munging.

The hope is that some researchers will determine where the most accessible data is, and next week can talk about how we bring that into a centralized, standard format.  In time, more importing can grow this list.

It was astutely pointed out that people might do double duty when researching these things, thus we're going to "claim" areas to research.  So far selections are:

* Chicago
* Michigan
* Albany, NY
* NYC
* Seattle

