# 2016-02-23 Minutes

## Data Connectors / APIs

Kyle reviewed the general framework about how data will get into the system.  The API that is being worked on will be willing to accept data from anyone who cares to send it.  Every application or user will need a free account so we can manage at the user level if that is ever relevant (like banning a spambot).

The API will requires a common language / schema, and we discussed last week how to make that robust and extensible.

Under this model, we expect smaller independent groups to assemble "connectors" for the data sources they care about.  Whether your local community or an area you're simply interested in, and check out this link:

https://github.com/data-skeptic/data-source-notes

See if there's a team already working on a connection and help, or start a new one.  Crawl, consume the API, or whatever it takes to get the data you found streamed to the API.

In this way, the hoope is that small teams will take on independent integrations in the language / process of their choice.  Perhaps some corporate entities might choose to pump their data as well, all into this common API.  Basically, create a bunch of independently built and maintained "connector agents".

Similarly, if one connector was mis-behaving (shown to violate their source's TOS), they could be easily disabled until the issue is resolved.


So one thing from me for next week will be a write up of best practices, which I'll submit for criticism
Hopefully we can bang out a nice specification via committee

## API Update

API is going well.  It is set up on Heroku, and will soon be on a centralized project instance.  A readme.md file will be added explaining any cloner of the repo how to pull and stand it up on a free instance of Heroku for their own development.

We will also start listing issues using the official Github Issues pages, so that volunteers can pick up work from that central place.

## Licensing

Kyle made these comments:

> I am thinking, the best license (both code and data) though distinctly separate licenses, both be set to a license that makes them freely available and have a share-alike / derivative commercial allowance

> So people could build companies on top this data if they choose, but any enrichment they do (correcting a field, adding metadata) must be submitted back

> Very similar idea to the model you see in Redhat

> If an entrepreneur takes a risk and starts a company that leverages the data, I am not clear on a downside.  It seems it would bring more attention to the project, and possibly improvements would flow back that weren't otherwise going to happen

> Also, if the person is a mean nasty guy

> Doing something not nice in his business

> (or her business)

> Since its based on an open platform, a free / not evil-competitor could be built

> I know much of this may be philosophical with no certain answers, but I wante dto see if anyone disagreed with this perspective

> I'm very open to having my mind changed, but this seems very logical to me with the information I have right now

There was unanimous agreement with these intents.

## Next Steps

Kyle will create a repository to house our policies for how we recommend "Connector" creators how to be polite of their data sources and act within TOS agreements.  The API will also contain some "skeleton" projects in various languages to help with crawling and calling our API.

The best practices document can be reviewed next week.

