# 2016-02-23 Minutes

To start this meeting, Kyle discussed organizing four committees:

1. API committee - create an open source API and stand it up
2. Persistence committee - a group that figures out where the API stores and retrieves data from
3. API producers - people interested in writing services that push data they get from crawls (edited)
4. API consumers - people building interactive apps consuming the API's data

The suggestion was made that API and Persistence committee be merged.  Kyle comes around to seeing it
the same way so long as we can have a clean data access layer.  He expressed an interest in exploring
creating some sort of "TorrentDB" in the future, leveraging peer to peer storage.

After some discussion about ideal language / frameworks, attendees agreed upon using Django (a python framework).  Smitec volunteered to put a basic version in place.

Kyle created the new "data skeptic" organization and an issolated repository for the [home-data-api](https://github.com/data-skeptic/home-data-api).

Decisions need to be made about the schema for these listings.  Kyle will report back on some findings from a possible format he's investigating.

It was noted that further discussion should be had around both the license of the code and the license of the data, with the most free and open license that makes sense for the project.  At some point, some sort of vote may be taken about the exact license and what the community thinks about the possibility of a 3rd party leveraging either for commercial purposes.

